Add more flesh to "Being a good community member" (#97)
exercism/docs: community/good-member/README.md

# Being a Good Exercism Community Member

We want Exercism to be a great place to spend time, whoever you are.
To ensure that Exercism is that, we place a strong focus on being good community members.

This is formalised in our [Code of Conduct](https://exercism.io/code-of-conduct) but can be summed up simply in one sentence: **Be kind.**

There are a few principles to try and keep in mind as you contribute to Exercism.

> Whether you're mentoring, learning, hanging out in a chat space, or helping building things on GitHub, if you follow these ideas, you'll find that Exercism can be an incredibly fun and rewarding place to spend time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Whether you're mentoring, learning, hanging out in a chat space, or helping build things on GitHub, if you follow these ideas, you'll find that Exercism can be an incredibly fun and rewarding place to spend time:
```

- Presume good intentions
- Being wrong is awesome
- You don't know what you don't know
- Disagree constructively
- Choose your words carefully

## Presume good intentions

> The vast majority of people who are involved in Exercism do so because they want to help others.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The vast majority of people who are involved in Exercism participate because they _want to help others_.
```

They're probably passionate about tech, maybe interested in education, but overwhelmingly want to be in a space where they're building something positive with others.

> That means that the majority of discussions are happening between two people who want the best for each and also for Exercism.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That means that the majority of discussions are happening between two people who want the best for each other and also for Exercism.
```

> Sometimes, when disagreements happen its easy to jump to the conclusion that the other person is being difficult, or not listening, or not understanding your point.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes, when disagreements happen it's easy to jump to the conclusion that the other person is being difficult, or not listening, or not understanding your point.
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Sometimes, when disagreements happen, its easy to jump to the conclusion that the other person is being difficult, or not listening, or not understanding your point.
```

I think?

> Sometimes, when disagreements happen it's easy to jump to the conclusion that the other person is being difficult, or not listening, or not understanding your point.

Author: ```suggestion
Sometimes, when disagreements happen, it's easy to jump to the conclusion that the other person is being difficult, or not listening, or not understanding your point.
```

> It's easy to imagine they're sitting there feeling smug, polishing their ego, while they rile you up with their wrong opinions.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It's easy to imagine the other person feeling smug, polishing their ego, while they rile you up with their "wrong" opinions.
```

> In reality, they're much more likely to be trying to communicate something that they feel is important and not finding a way to do that in a way that is clear to others.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In reality, that person is much more likely to be trying to communicate something that they feel is important and not finding words or strategies that are clear to others.
```

> In reality, they're much more likely to be trying to communicate something that they feel is important and not finding a way to do that in a way that is clear to others.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In reality, that person is much more likely to be trying to communicate something that they feel is important and not finding a way to do that in a way clear to others.
```

> When we step back and presume each other are **tying** to be kind, and trying to do the right things, and trying to be clear, it makes it a lot easier for us to loosen the grip on our own egos and **actively** try to listen to the other person's point.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When we step back and presume everyone participating is **tying** to be kind, trying to do the right things, and trying to be clear, it makes it a lot easier for us to loosen the grip on our own egos and **actively** try to listen to the other person's point of view.
```

> When we step back and presume each other are **tying** to be kind, and trying to do the right things, and trying to be clear, it makes it a lot easier for us to loosen the grip on our own egos and **actively** try to listen to the other person's point.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When we step back and presume each person is **trying** to be kind, clear, and do the right thing; it makes it a lot easier for us to loosen the grip on our own egos and **actively listen** to another person's concern.
```

> Which brings us on to...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Which leads us to...
```

## Being wrong is awesome

> Learning that you're wrong about something is the best thing that can happen to you, because you're now less wrong than you were before.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Learning that you're wrong about something is the _best thing that can happen to you_, because you're now **less wrong** than you were before.
```

> Learning that you're wrong about something is the best thing that can happen to you, because you're now less wrong than you were before.

Reviewer 2: Not true. You can also be wrong in different ways, e.g. if both participants are wrong.

Author: You're still less wrong if you realise something you thought was wrong previously and now know the truth. No?

Reviewer 2: True, you're less wrong in the sense that you eliminated one way in which you were wrong. But I feel like the sentence suggests that now you'd know "the truth", when you might just know something else that's wrong. You're closer to not being wrong anymore, but may still be wrong. And I think that should be underlined in some way.

> If you're someone that cares about being scientific in your thinking, in being correct and knowledge, then discovering you're wrong is the most exciting thing possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're someone that cares about being scientific in your thinking - in being correct and knowledgeable - then discovering you're wrong is the most exciting thing possible.
```

> If you're someone that cares about being scientific in your thinking, in being correct and knowledge, then discovering you're wrong is the most exciting thing possible.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you're someone that cares about being scientific in your thinking, pursuing knowledge and correctness, then discovering you're wrong is the most exciting thing possible.
```

Author: ```suggestion
If you're someone that cares about being scientific in your thinking, pursuing knowledge, and being correct in things, then discovering you're wrong is the most exciting thing possible.
```

> If you're someone that cares about being scientific in your thinking, in being correct and knowledge, then discovering you're wrong is the most exciting thing possible.

Reviewer 2: Being correct and knowledgeable is not the same as scientific thinking: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Scientific_thinking

Author: I've now comma'd this to show that I mean scientific to be in a list of possible mindsets - as opposite to being a superset.

> So when you go into a discussion on Exercism, see it as an opportunity not to prove you're right but to discover where you might be wrong, and in doing so become more correct than you were before.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So when you enter into a discussion on Exercism, view it as an opportunity to discover where you might be wrong, and in doing so become more correct than you were before.
```

Author: ```suggestion
So when you enter into a discussion on Exercism, view it as an opportunity not to prove you're right but to discover where you might be wrong. In doing so, you may become more correct than you were before.
```

> So when you go into a discussion on Exercism, see it as an opportunity not to prove you're right but to discover where you might be wrong, and in doing so become more correct than you were before.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
So when going into a discussion on Exercism, see it as an opportunity not to prove you're right but instead to discover where you might be wrong. In doing so, you become more correct than you were before.
```

> So when you go into a discussion on Exercism, see it as an opportunity not to prove you're right but to discover where you might be wrong, and in doing so become more correct than you were before.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
So when you go into a discussion on Exercism, see it as an opportunity not to prove you're right but to discover where you might be wrong, and in doing so coming closer to being correct than you were before.
```

If you were wrong before, you weren't correct at all, so "more correct than before" doesn't mean much.

Adam Grant wrote a [whole book on this](https://www.adamgrant.net/book/think-again/).

> In it he quotes Ray Dalio saying "If you don't look back at yourself and think, 'Wow how sutpid I was a year ago', then you must not have learned much in the last year".

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In it he quotes Ray Dalio saying "If you don't look back at yourself and think, 'Wow how stupid I was a year ago', then you must not have learned much in the last year".
```

> In it he quotes Ray Dalio saying "If you don't look back at yourself and think, 'Wow how sutpid I was a year ago', then you must not have learned much in the last year".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In it he quotes [Ray Dalio](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ray_Dalio) saying "If you don't look back at yourself and think, 'Wow how stupid I was a year ago', then you must not have learned much in the last year".
```

## You don't know what you don't know

> Exercism is built on the tenant that we don't know what we don't know.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Exercism is built on the tenant that **we don't know what we don't know**.
```

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Exercism is built on the tenet that we don't know what we don't know.
```

Or with Bethany's suggestion:

```suggestion
Exercism is built on the tenet that **we don't know what we don't know**.
```

> The whole platform works around mentors pointing out knowledge gaps that you didn't know you have.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The whole platform works around mentors pointing out knowledge gaps that you don't know you have.
```

> And that works incredibly when both sides are open to knew information (very often its the mentors that realise they didn't know something when seeing new code from a student!)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And it is an incredible experience when both sides are open to new information (very often its the _mentors_ that realize they didn't know something when seeing new code and strategies from a student!)
```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
And it is an incredible experience when both sides are open to new information (very often it's the _mentors_ that realize they didn't know something themselves when seeing new code and strategies from a student!)
```

> It's ease to remember that in the context of being a student in a mentoring session, but it's just as important everywhere else within Exercism.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's easy to remember that feeling in the context of being a student in a mentoring session, but that spirit of openness just as important everywhere else within Exercism.
```

> When you think something sucks about the website, start by asking yourself what it is that you might not know — a decision that looks ridiculous to you might indicate that your knowledge is missing something just as much as it might indicate that the decision actually **is** ridiculous.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you think something sucks about the website, start by asking yourself what things you might _not_ know— a decision that looks ridiculous from your perspective might indicate a gap in your knowledge — just as much as it might indicate that the decision actually **is** ridiculous.
```

> Take a read of our post on [Chesteron's Fence](./being-a-good-community-member/chestertons-fence) to practical examples of how this principle applies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Take a look at our post on [Chesterton's Fence](./being-a-good-community-member/chestertons-fence) for some practical examples of how this principle applies.
```

> Take a read of our post on [Chesteron's Fence](./being-a-good-community-member/chestertons-fence) to practical examples of how this principle applies.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Take a read of our post on [Chesterton's Fence](./being-a-good-community-member/chestertons-fence) to practical examples of how this principle applies.
```

## Disagree constructively

> A huge part of building a successful product is in people bringing different opinions and discussing them to aim to find truth (or at the very least some constructive way forward).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A huge part of building a successful product, and a successful community, centers on people bringing different opinions and perspectives, and discussing those with the aim of finding a common truth (or at the very least some constructive way forward).
```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A huge part of building a successful product, and a successful community, centers on people bringing different opinions and perspectives, and discussing those with the aim of finding a common truth. It may even require some disagreement about the accepted truth to arrive at a better truth.
```

> Disagreeing with each other is therefore a critical component of Exercism.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Disagreeing with each other is therefore a _critical_ component of Exercism.  But being _disagreeable_ is **not**.
```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Disagreement with other people is therefore a _critical_ component of Exercism.  But being a _disagreeable_ person is **not**.
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Disagreement with other people is therefore a _critical_ component of Exercism.
But being a _disagreeable_ person is **not**.
```

Author: I don't think I want to label someone as "disagreeable" or "a disagreeable person" so I'll leave this one as it is.

> However, disagreeing constructively is a skill — one that is difficult to master.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Disagreeing with people constructively is a skill — one that is difficult to master.
```

> Here a few guiding points on how to disagree constructively within our community:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here are a few guiding points on how to disagree _constructively_ within our community:
```

### 1. Ask yourself if you need to get involved

> So you've found a problem and feel like someone needs to know about it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You've found a problem and feel like someone needs to know about it.
```

> The first thing to ask yourself is do they?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first thing to ask yourself is _do they_?
```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The first thing to ask yourself is do they _need_ to need to know about it?
```

> Will telling someone that something is wrong make things better?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Will telling someone that something is wrong _make things better_?
```

Are you adding noise or signal?

More often than not, telling someone that they're wrong is great.

> You help them address a knowledge gap and help make Exercism better.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You help them address a knowledge gap and help make the Exercism community better.
```

But sometimes it's not worth the noise or energy, and correcting someone just makes someone feel worse about themselves.

> So before you jump in, just sanity-check whether it's the right thing to do.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
So before you jump in, just make sure that it's the right thing to do for other contributors.
```

> ### 2. Don't pile in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 2. Don't pile on
```

> Closely linked to 1 is our tribal nature of seeing something we have an opinion on and feeling the need to comment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Closely linked to point 1 is our tribal nature of seeing something we have an opinion on and feeling the need to comment.
```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Closely linked to the first point, our tribal nature often feels the need to comment when we see someone expressing a common (or conflicting) opinion.
```

> You see this a lot on GitHub with people adding 👍 and 👎 emojis onto every comment or spamming a thread with "Me too".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You see this a lot on GitHub with people adding 👍 and 👎 emojis onto every comment or spamming a thread with a "Me too!" comment.
```

> Many people see two people disagreeing and feel they need to "reinforce" the person that is saying what they agree with.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many people see a public disagreement and feel they need to "reinforce" the people who's opinions they agree with.
```

> If you're not saying something new, or something useful, ask yourself whether you need to say anything at all.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're not saying something new, or something useful, ask yourself whether you _need_ to say anything at all.
```

- Does that 👎 just make someone feel rubbish about themselves?
- Is it going to just entrench them further in their position and make them defensive?

> - Does adding a 👍 make someone else feel like they're right, boost their ego, and entrench them further.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Does adding a 👍 make someone else feel like they're right, boost their ego, and entrench them further?
```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Does adding a 👍 make someone else feel like they're right, boost their ego, and make it more difficult to empathize with the opposing viewpoint?
```

> - Does adding a 👍 make someone else feel like they're right, boost their ego, and entrench them further.

Reviewer 2: I think the thumbs up/down emoji are a great way to prevent people from piling on. It clearly shows you support something but it doesn't spam people will notifications, so it's not overwhelming. In some ways it's the virtual equivalent to nodding your head in a meeting, and I don't think anyone would consider that a "pile on".

Author: I find it piling on. It's one of my least favourite things about working in open source when you say something and lots of people :-1: you or when someone you're disagreeing with gets lots of :+1:. IMO it:
- Turns many debates into a popularity contests
- Makes people more defensive and more entrenched
- Creates tribes who agree or disagree en mass with things.

If you look at all the problematic PS discussions you'll see that this was a behaviour that kicked in there.

I do understand the perspective that it's helpful to vote up and down on things, or show agreement, but in the context of a debate, it feels to me like an audience cheering or booing at every comment, and that definitely means I am less constructive in conversations when I'm in one where that's happening.

Reviewer 2: I see. That's really different to how I feel about and react to emote reactions.

> It's one of my least favourite things about working in open source when you say something and lots of people 👎 you or when someone you're disagreeing with gets lots of 👍

To me it's a good thing in both cases<sup>1</sup>. It means that people have read what I said, and care about it in some way. Imo it's worse to only receive a single comment because it feels like nobody cares, even if perhaps a dozen people have seen it but were discouraged from weighing in on it due to discouraging the emote reactions.

Personally I think the overall risk of discouraging them (more notification spam because people _will_ comment, the feel that nobody gives a damn about what one wrote) far outweighs the advantages.

Maybe we could discourage piling on a comment with emotes, but still encourage the reactions generally?

Something along the lines of

> Please consider if it really adds anything to be the fifth person up- or downvoting a comment.

---

<sup>1</sup>Unless the issue was linked to some other place and it's just randoms voting on it which I don't think happens a lot in Exercism repos and can be stopped through mod tools when it happens.

> - Does adding a "This is broken for me too" add a useful data point for a maintainer, or just more pressure and urgency?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Does adding a "This is broken for me too!" comment add a _useful_ data point for a maintainer, or is it just more pressure and urgency?
```

> Each situation is different, but think before you click or type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every situation is different, but pause and think before you react or respond.
```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Each situation is different, but think before you click to reply.
```

> Each situation is different, but think before you click or type.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each situation is different, but think before you reply.
```

I can reply without clicking on mobile, and presumably some accessibility hardware doesn't involve clicking either.

### 3. Don't make it personal

> So you've got into a disagreement. Great! Now, make it count.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So you've gotten into a disagreement.
**Great!** 🎉
Now, _make it count_.
```

> So you've got into a disagreement. Great! Now, make it count.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
So you've got into a disagreement.
Great! Now, make it count.
```

> Remember, you're not disagreeing with a person, you're disagreeing with their **current** viewpoint on something.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Remember, you're not disagreeing with a person -- you're disagreeing with their **current** viewpoint on something.
```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Remember, you're not disagreeing with a person — you're disagreeing with their **current** view on something.
```

Reviewer 2: In the text above, unicode dashes are used. I don't really care which one should be used, but perhaps it should be the same. (and added to the markdown style guide)

> Ensure you give them room to change without them feeling like they lose face to do so.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure you give them room to change that viewpoint _without_ them feeling like they lose face to do so.
```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Ensure you give them room to change that view _without_ them feeling like they lose face to do so.
```

> Empower them to see the value of your arguments without making them feel stupid that their thoughts were wrong.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Empower them to see the value of your viewpoint without making them feel stupid that their thoughts were wrong.
```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Empower them to see the value of your viewpoint without making them feel stupid.
```

> Don't make it personal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Don't make it personal.**
```

> A good red flag is if you start needing to quote what someone has said to point out where they were wrong or contradicted themselves.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A clear red flag is needing to quote what someone has said to point out where they went wrong or contradicted themselves.
```

> A good red flag is if you start needing to quote what someone has said to point out where they were wrong or contradicted themselves.

Reviewer 2: Could you elaborate why this is a red flag in your opinion?

Imo if a text is sufficiently long, it makes it easier on everyone to quote which parts you are refering to.

Author: Yeah, quoting in itself is fine, it's when it becomes "But up here you said XYZ" that it becomes unhelpful. Quoting should be used to shorten text (as you say) as hold peoples words against them.

> People contradicting themselves is often a sign of them **evolving their thoughts.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
People contradicting themselves is often a sign of  their **thoughts evolving.**
```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
People contradicting themselves is often a sign of **evolving thought.**
```

> It doesn't prove their wrong — it proves that their letting their mind be creative and exploring different avenues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It doesn't prove they're _wrong_ — it proves that they're allowing their mind to be creative.  
They're exploring different avenues, and putting things together in a different way.
```

Encourage this!

And remember to be your own person.

> You don't need to point out that you agree with X or that Y is clearly correct.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You don't _need_ to point out that you agree with X or that Y is clearly correct.
```

> It's not about people, it's about finding the best solution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's not about people, it's about _finding the best solution_.
```

> Add signal, not noise.

Reviewer 2: For example, by adding 👍/👎  emoji which are pure signal, zero noise, no?

Author: I'll resolve this one and let us discuss it in the other place.

### 4. Accept decisions

Often disagreements don't come to conclusions that everyone agrees on.
In fact, in Exercism nearly everything is some sort of compromise.

> You will therefore nearly always be a little unhappy with the outcome.

Reviewer 4: I was wondering if we should add something about not making decisions being far worse than deciding on a compromise.

It is critical to being a good community member to accept decisions and embrace them, even if you disagree with them.

> Decisions have to consider lots of viewpoints and contain lots of tradeoffs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Decisions have to encompass a lot of viewpoints and they will ultimately contain a lot of tradeoffs.
```

> What's good for one track might be a little worse for another.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What's good for one language track might be a little worse for another.
```

> Something might cause you more work than it causes someone else.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some architectural or organizational direction might cause you more work than it causes someone else.
```

> A site-wide consideration might be deemed more important than a track-specific one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A site-wide or community-wide consideration might be deemed more important than your track-specific one.
```

If you don't feel you understand why a decision has been made, always feel free to ask.
But once the decision is explained, the onus is on you to accept it even if you don't like it.

> In everyone doing this, next time a decision **does** go your way at the cost of someone else's pleasure, you won't feel their guilt or resentment either.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If everyone strives to do this, the next time a decision **does** go your way at the cost of someone else's pleasure, you won't feel their guilt or resentment, and can focus your energy on more productive issues.
```

> And have faith that decisions are a made in good-faith — trying to do the best for the community, the platform, and our students.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And trust that decisions are a made in _**good-faith**_ — everyone is trying to do what is best for the community, the platform, and our students.
```

## Choose your words carefully

There are lots of ways to embrace being kind within Exercism, but the most powerful is to consider how your words affect others.

> In a cross-cultural space full of people from different backgrounds, who share different beliefs, value-systems and natural languages, communicating clearly is a super-power.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a cross-cultural space full of people from different backgrounds -- who share different beliefs, value-systems, and natural languages -- communicating clearly is a super-power.
```
